# LIS-590-a-OADTL-DFW-Victoria-Rincon "(weekly reflections)"
**Week One Reflection 06/26/2023**

For some context, I will be working with the Open Access Digital Theological Library with Tom Phillips and Ann Hidelago, and this log will serve as a place to keep track of what we are doing, my progress, and my thoughts. Originally I was going to do this via WordPress, but I was advised that GitHub may be a better option. (Also, I found WordPress to be a bit frustrating to use, so perhaps this was a better alternative in the long run) I was very nervous about starting this DFW, but This morning I meet with Ann Hidalgo today alongside Lily Woodard (my fellow DTL intern, she's awesome). Our meeting was about an hour, and during the first half, Ann walked us through some of what we will be doing this summer with the OADTL. I was a bit nervous, but the meeting was an overall success, except for one issue. When it was time to create our accounts and follow along with Ann, I never received the email activating it. I wish we could have stayed longer, but I had to leave for work. Luckily Ann offered to meet with me on Tuesday. I am looking forward to creating my own digital collection, and I am glad I decided to do a DFW this summer so I can obtain on-hand knowledge even though my experiences with tech are very few and far in between, and I do not necessarily trust my abilities with technology

**06/27/2023**

I met with Ann earlier, and I got the email that helped me set up my OCLC account, which was great. I was a bit worried that it still wouldn't work, but luckily crisis averted. Ann showed me how under the metadata tab, to search for titles to add to a collection in OCLC and the proper process for checking metadata from the identifiers (Internet Archive OADTL) to make sure they matched; we went through an example I did alongside her and then did two by myself with her watching. I was surprised by how easy the process was, but this is only our first lesson, and there is still more to learn. Our homework for this week is to find more titles to add to the collection from this process we just learned, and we are meant to have another meeting this Friday. I also think that I need to figure out what is happening with my GitHub. When I type, there is a huge delay between what I am typing and when it appears on the screen. Am I typing too fast for it to keep up?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**Week Two Reflection 07/08/2023**

I ran into a few hiccups before adding more to the collection, but luckily after looking at my notes, and remembered I was supposed to remove the checkmark for the “My Selected Titles” filter. I wish I realized it a bit sooner because it took me a very confused ten minutes to finally realize what was happening. After that was settled, I was able to find titles like Anne showed me. I made sure I was in the Metadata tab and kept the default settings in the collection manager section with my data type as “collection” and my scope as “my selected collections.” After that, I typed in my search term “free to read,” and the Internet Archive came up as a result. I selected it, and from I started my quest. I promised myself this week that I would try to find at minimum 10-20 titles to add to the collection, which I knew would not be the easiest task considering many have already been added by previous students in this DFW. I also tried to space out the amount of time it would take to undergo this task throughout the week. After a few tries of finding a term that had titles that were not in the collection yet, I finally got results for the term “gnostic. Only one page of results came up, but I found a few that were not selected yet. I made sure that I looked through what was available and that they were relevant to the OADTL. When I found one, I copied the OCLC number and pasted it into the OADTL search bar, and compared it to the scanned copy and metadata on the Internet Archive website. From this search, I selected four that seemed relevant and moved on to another term, “superstition.” I only found one (a volume 3 out of 4 about totemism by Frazer) that I could select, a lot of the titles were repeats with one copy already added to the collection. I then used “superstitions” as my next term, which yielded way more results. It’s a little funny how much the difference is just by making the term plural, I found eight. Lastly, taking inspiration from my first successful search, I used the term “totemism” and found three. 

Friday (July 7th), we had our meeting with Ann again. It went well, we talked about how the first week of work went. Homework is the same, and we are supposed to have another meeting on Monday morning. We also discussed a small scare I had. I deselected a title, and when it disappeared from the list of titles, I thought I accidentally deleted it altogether. Turns out no, it was still there, and deselecting does not delete things from the Internet Archive! I feel relieved and a bit silly about the whole thing. We also talked about duplicates of books and whether we should add them, and we were told it was fine so long as they don't have the same website link. I think this time, I am going to find ten more titles but try to stick to one key term or closely related key terms.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**Week Three 07/09/2023-07/15/2023**

Slight change; this week, we are creating our own collections. (Yay!). Last Monday morning (07/10/20203) Ann showed Lily Woodard and me how to create collections in the OADTL in conjugation with not only World Cat but also academic and institutional repositories with dissertations. According to Ann this is important for two reasons: 1. Because they are helpful for other students and 2. because they provide a cluster of sources that have been vetted and put through the peer review process. A lot of these university repositories are open-access, which is great, and we were initially going to start with using UNAM, an extremely popular open-access repository from the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. Anne explained the importance of adding foreign language resources. WorldCat may not have the same open-access materials as UNAM due to not being as popular in Latin America, and we need both WorldCat and a repository like UNAM to create these collections. Ann also informed us of the importance of having bilingual researchers in order for a collection to grow. However, I was not confident in my knowledge of the Spanish language and was given the option to use eScholarship (a repository established by the University of California) in order to proceed with the exercise. 

Like last time Ann walked us through the process, and I'll recount it here like I did last week's log. First, we click "Create Collection" and keep the default collection type as "Knowledge Base Collection." Then when naming the collection, we have to follow the same convention that shows where the collection is coming from and what the topic is. In my case, it was DTL OA eScholarship (UC) Open Access Dissertations in Folklore, a collection ID will be generated, and the attributes must have "Open Access" checked off. You must write a description of the collection, and you have the option to write notes, and although they can both be changed later, a description must be written during the creation process that explains what the collection is, where the dissertations are from, and who curates it. Under the "Holdings and MARC Records tab, we are supposed to keep the default for "use institution settings" and allow ILL and enable MARC record delivery. Everything else should be kept the same. 

Once the collection is created, you can begin adding titles. First, you go to the repository, and after typing your topic (i.e., folklore) in the search, select theses. We found this really interesting thesis on Voodoo and zombies in cinema and used that for this run-through. With Ann instructing me, I copied and pasted the title into the DTL (WorldCat) to see if it was there, when it appeared, we examined the metadata 
 to compare the author, title, and year and they all matched. We did see under "Access Online" that it already was in the DTL but in another collection centered around religious studies, but was assured that it was fine to continue. I copied the OCLC number and the collection, clicked add "Add Local Title" and used the "Create Using OCLC Number to Pre-fill" in the drop-down box. Next, I set the "Coverage Depth" to "Ebook" and added the title URL, after that, it was ready to go.
 
Our assignment this week is to add more dissertations to our newly established collection. My only concern at the moment is not finding enough that falls within the topic I chose. There are plenty on eScholarship that are about folklore, but finding dissertations pertaining to folklore AND related to religion has me a bit worried. It should be fine, though, right?

Anyway, it took a few hours, but I now have ten titles in my collection. I tried to attach a screenshot to this log, but I am not sure if it will work. If not, I'll add it to the documents folder. I am looking forward to our next meeting on Monday. I think I did a good job, but I think there are a few questions I should ask Ann. It was a bit late to ask, but I should have asked for clarification if I could add titles that were not in the OADTL, all of the ones I picked were but as a part of different collections. I know she said it was fine when we were doing the together, and perhaps it is just me being insecure, but I cannot help but think that I did some part of this wrong. 

[Screenshot 2023-07-16 040351](https://github.com/rincovi/LIS-590-a-OADTL-DFW-Victoria-Rincon/assets/131549576/a9a8e5e4-d60d-4eb8-8950-d7dd8888434f)
